Add linting topic to LWC parent. (#2060)
forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode: docs/_articles/en/lwc/linting.md

---
title: Linting 
lang: en
---

Linting provides errors about malformed code while you edit. VS Code enforces Salesforce’s ESLint rules. 

## Prerequisites

[The active LTS release](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/) of Node.js built with SSL support. 

## Installation

**For a New Project**

> If you've recently created a new SFDX project using the `force:project:create` command, your project contains a `package.json` file with the ESLint plugin already included. Make sure to run `npm install` in your project directory to install the dependencies from `package.json`. To start linting, run `npm run lint:lwc`.

Reviewer: I tried these steps from scratch and on a brand new project the `lint:lwc` command will throw an error because there aren't any LWC components created yet for it to lint. Is it worth calling out that you need to create LWC components before linting? Maybe not, just thinking about it.

> If you've recently created a new SFDX project using the `force:project:create` command, your project contains a `package.json` file with the ESLint plugin already included. Make sure to run `npm install` in your project directory to install the dependencies from `package.json`. To start linting, run `npm run lint:lwc`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you create an SFDX project using the `sfdx force:project:create` command, your project contains a `package.json` file with the ESLint plugin already included. Run `npm install` in your project directory to install the dependencies from `package.json`. To start linting, run `npm run lint:lwc`.
```

> **For an Existing Project**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## For an Existing Project with a package.json File
```

1. Check whether your project contains a `package.json` file. This file specifies the packages and version required to run your project.
 

> If you already have a `package.json` file:

Reviewer: I think these lines need to be indented

 
- Add `lint` and `lint:lwc` to the scripts section of `package.json`.

```
"scripts": {
	"lint": "npm run lint:lwc",
  	"lint:lwc": "eslint force-app/main/default/lwc"
}
```

> - Add the Salesforce ESLint configuration and ESLint to devDependencies. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add the Salesforce ESLint configuration and ESLint to `devDependencies`. 
```

	
```
"devDependencies" {
	"@salesforce/eslint-config-lwc": "0.4.0",
	"eslint": "^5.16.0"
}
```
 
- Run `npm install` on your project directory to install the dependencies. Start linting by running `npm run lint:lwc`.

>    If you don't have a `package.json` file, copy this file and save it in your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## For an Existing Project without a `package.json` File
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Copy this file and save it in your project.
```

Reviewer 2: Which file?

Author: I updated this in my most recent commit

Reviewer: can we explicit and name the link, e.g., "Copy this package.json file"

## Installation

### For a New Project

If you create an SFDX project using the `sfdx force:project:create` command, your project contains a `package.json` file with the ESLint plugin already included. Run `npm install` in your project directory to install the dependencies from `package.json`. To start linting, run `npm run lint:lwc`. You must have components in your project in order to run this command.

> ### For an Existing Project with a `package.json` File

Reviewer 2: An existing project with a `package.json` file could already include the scripts and the devDependencies.

Author: @jbleyleSF How about: In `package.json`, check whether `devDependencies` includes the Salesforce ESLint configuration and ESLint. If not, add these lines.

Reviewer: So in this scenario, the .eslintrc.json may not be present either and may need to be added, same as in the following section.
